okay so next to override asked me to
make a video on making this shed door
that I'm making I've never done
something like this this extensive with
a wooden screws and sawing and I did a
youtube search and couldn't find
anything about building a shut door have
a utility shed out back at the door
rotted off of and we want to close it up
tight and store some stuff in like
Sterilite containers so so far and I
don't know if I can get far enough back
because I'm in actually my laundry room
which is a little screen porch but what
I did is I bought a piece of texture 111
and that's just wood that some people
use on the side of their house as you
can see the nice little grooves right
here and it's just you can paint it and
my in-laws actually have this on the
outside of their house for their siding
so I bought a four by eight sheet of
texture 111 and I bought these um four
and six foot pieces of one buy and I
just cut angles with the miter box over
here each corner has an angle like that
so it's kind of like a picture frame
around the outside of the door and I
broke a piece of wood one cracked so I
had these extra pieces so what I'm going
to do with this type of piece is I'm
going to make a nice little decorative
corner and I guess it might add strength
to the door as well but this is what I'm
going to do with these extra pieces as
I've made my mark and I'm going to cut
that angle
this is what they're going to look like
there's one here's the other and just
going to put these inch and a quarter
screws and making sure that I go right
here and not in the groove of the
texture 111 so I'm going to go in the
center right there and I'll probably
just put one right here in the middle of
these like I said I think they're more
decoration than they are
anything else force more stuff for me to
paint I guess
so I've assembled the door and as you
can see I've used some primer this kills
latex into your exterior you can use
primer and paint mix but the people at
Lowe's suggest that I use on a separate
primer so I use kills here's the door
framed out and all primed do the same
kind of angles that I did on the door
itself at the top here's the door all
primed we got it laying on some saw
horses and like I said I took the kills
and did a coat takes about 30 minutes
takes about 30 minutes to dry and then
I'm going to put on the bail spar
exterior paint in red and kind of made a
mistake here as I painted you can see
it's a little messy here and I think
what I'm going to do is just put some
painters tape along here and clean that
up with the red I have so next part I'm
going to show you is the finished
painted door I don't think that you need
to watch when you paint the door kind of
boring it's like watching paint dry
chortle I'm going to screw this hinge
into the door first it may be the wrong
way to do it we may decide we want to
screw it into the side of the door jamb
first but we're going to try this see
what happens
we'll do it we'll do a sped-up montage
me screwing these hinges in
I'm gonna bring you over here your son
we're going to put our pole
I'm going to put the hinge clasp on so I
can put a lock on this door